Evolutionary analysis by the Maximum Likelihood method
The bootstrap consensus tree inferred from 1,000 replicates [1] is taken to represent the evolutionary history of the taxa analyzed where branches corresponding to partitions reproduced in less than 50% of replicate trees are collapsed. The percentage of replicate trees in which the associated taxa clustered together (1,000 replicates) is shown next to the branches [1]. The initial tree for the heuristic search was selected by choosing the tree with the superior log-likelihood between a Neighbor-Joining (NJ) tree [2] and a Maximum Parsimony (MP) tree. The NJ tree was generated using a matrix of pairwise distances computed using the General Time Reversible model [3]. The MP tree had the shortest length among 10 MP tree searches, each performed with a randomly generated starting tree. The evolutionary rate differences among sites were modeled using a discrete Gamma distribution across 5 categories (+G, parameter = 0.0603). The analytical procedure encompassed 94 coding nucleotide sequences using 1st, 2nd, 3rd, and non-coding positions. The partial deletion option was applied to eliminate all positions with less than 95% site coverage resulting in a final data set comprising 321 positions. Evolutionary analyses were conducted in MEGA12 [4] utilizing up to 9 parallel computing threads.


1. Felsenstein J. (1985). Confidence limits on phylogenies: An approach using the bootstrap. Evolution 39:783-791.
2. Saitou N. and Nei M. (1987). The neighbor-joining method: A new method for reconstructing phylogenetic trees. Molecular Biology and Evolution 4:406-425.
3. Nei M. and Kumar S. (2000). Molecular Evolution and Phylogenetics. Oxford University Press, New York.
4. Kumar S., Stecher G., Suleski M., Sanderford M., Sharma S., and Tamura K. (2024). Molecular Evolutionary Genetics Analysis Version 12 for adaptive and green computing. Molecular Biology and Evolution 41:1-9.
Disclaimer: While every effort has been made to ensure the accuracy of the caption, it is provided "as is" without warranty of any kind. Users are advised to thoroughly review the caption before its use for any purpose and report any errors or issues to the authors at www.megasoftware.net. The authors and their employers disclaim any liability for damages, including but not limited to special or consequential damages. Additionally, the authors expressly disclaim all other warranties, whether expressed or implied, including the suitability of the caption text for a specific purpose, use, or application.
